In this lecture, we are going to add one more feature for modifying the image of the team member block.
In my browser, I have added the team members group block to the page.
If I were to select this block, the sidebar would have two options.
The second option allows us to select an image shape.
To give you an idea of what this looks like, check out the resource section of this lecture for a link
to a site called Clippy.
This site provides a playground for creating custom clip paths with CSS.
Clip paths can be applied to images to give them different shapes.
We can select a preset or we can create a custom clip path for this course.
I prepared the CSS file to contain classes for applying clip paths to the image.
Clip paths can be applied with the clip path.
CSS property.
In total, there are three classes for modifying the images shape.
All we need to do is apply the correct class to the image.
You can check out the main CSS file to find this code.
Feel free to add additional clip paths for the image.
I've already prepared the dropdown for selecting an image.
This dropdown is fully functional in our block configuration file.
There's an attribute called image shape.
This dropdown manipulates the image shape attributes.
You may be wondering why I'm applying this attribute to the container of the block, as opposed to allowing
individual blocks to modify this setting.
In my opinion, it makes sense to apply the image shape to all children blocks.
If we were to add this attribute on individual blocks, the client must update each block to change
the image shape.
They may want all team members to have the same image shape.
It would be tedious to modify each block.
Therefore, I've decided to apply this as a global setting.
However, there's just one problem.
This block doesn't need this data.
The image is rendered from the individual team member blocks.
Luckily, WordPress has a feature for communicating data between parent and child components.
If you can recall, there's a feature called BLOCK Context.
BLOCK context allows us to grab data from a parent source.
We use this feature for grabbing the post ID.
We're not limited to grabbing data from WordPress.
We can send data from a parent block to a child block using block contexts.
Let's explore how in your editor open the block JSON file for the team members group block.
At the bottom of the file at a property called provides context.
The value of this property is an object and this object we can expose attributes from this block to
children blocks.
The name of the property is a unique ID for identifying the data.
As you can imagine, WordPress exposes lots of data to our blocks to prevent conflicts with existing
data.
It's recommended to format the ID with the plugins name followed by the attribute name.
In our case, the name would be the following Udemy plus slash image shape.
The value for this property must be an attribute name.
The attribute we are trying to expose is called image shape.
The name must match the name of the attribute from the current block.
After updating this file, open the block JSON file for the team member block.
At the bottom of the object at a property called Uses Context.
This property is an array of values to accept from the parent block.
Let's add the U2 plus slash image shape value from the parent block.
Great.
The attribute from the parent block will be available to the children blocks.
We can use this data to change the shape of the image.
Let's update the edit component to use this value.
At the top of the function.
Let's de structure the props for an object called context.
The context object contains the values from the lock context.
Next, let's use this object to generate a class before the return statement.
Defining variable called image class.
The value for this variable will be the following WP.
Image.
Image ID.
Image context.
Utility.
Plus slash.
Image shape.
We are injecting two classes.
The first class is related to WordPress images embedded onto the page from the media library.
Should have the ID added to the class.
WordPress recommends pre fixing the ID with WP image.
It's common for plugins and themes to select images prefixed with this class.
This class won't affect our block.
It's not meant for us.
It's meant for other developers.
The second class will apply the clip path to the shape.
I've prefixed the classes with the word image.
This word is followed by the name of the image shape which is stored in the context object.
Let's update the template to use this variable search for the image tag in the templates.
On this tag, add the class name attribute.
The value for this attribute will be the image class variable.
We're finished.
Let's test our blocks in the browser.
Refresh the page.
At the team members group lock.
Lastly, add images to each team member block.
By default, the blocks will have the hexagon image shape.
We can select the team members group block to modify the shape.
As we do so, the images change in unison.
We've successfully communicated data from the parent block to the child block.
Using block context is a great way to apply global settings.
We've completed the image feature of our block in the next series of lectures.
Our focus will be shifted to the social media links when you're ready.
I'll see you there.